The Jet Set Hyperloop
FEB 25, 2016 by Christopher Miles  

Is Musk’s tube train a blast from the past?

Rapid low friction travel has been a dream –no, a mission– since the first efforts in the 19th century to create a working pneumatic  train. Some early designs featured a moving shoe in a pneumatic tube which pulled a train above it. Other, more ambitious designs, would place passengers in the tube. There had been experiments in Britain, efforts in France, and several demonstrations built in the U.S.Indeed, a small pneumatic subway line was opened in 1870 under Broadway in New York!

The general hyperloop concept (as we know it today) has been around for over 100 years. Such speedy travel had seemed possible for most of the 20th century, indeed patents were granted as early as 1912. It was a matter of technology timing, political will, and money. We may have needed a true believer, who’d be able to convince a skeptical public that traveling at high speeds in a windowless tube is a good idea. A person with engineering and business skills to make such a system seem feasible to the general public.
	
The Electrical Experimenter April 1917:…it really does not seem so impractical to speculate about the possibilities of such a high speed railway… A fortune awaits the man who is big enough for the job. It wants another Tesla or Edison and he is bound to arrive sooner or later.

A Tesla? How about a Musk?
Elon Musk’s Hyperloop Idea

Back in 2012, Elon Musk announced that he’d soon make public a set of plans for something new he’d been thinking over. He (and every other Californian) knew that a high speed rail line was being planned for travel through the congested areas of Southern California. Certainly some high speed rail is better than what exists now. However, going by the latest estimates, by 2025 only the first 250 miles of bullet train track will exist between San Jose and Bakersfield. 

Musk, never one for thinking conventionally, decided to create a better commute. 
Musk: It’s a cross between a Concorde, a rail gun, and an air hockey table.
Good to his word, in August 2013 Musk unveiled his Hyperloop plan. It featured a low pressure tube and an air levitated train traveling high speeds, with low energy consumption. However, the big challenge he faced was one of physics. Given the very high speeds, an air compression barrier would form in front of a hyperloop vehicle traveling in a confined space. Given the tight quarters in the tube he’d planned, pressure buildup in front of the vehicle would definitely have been a problem. Actually, this pressure barrier-known as the Kantrowitz Limit–wasn’t simply a problem,  it was a potential showstopper.

Attempts to pass a high-speed passenger-pod through a very low pressure tube run squarely into the Kantrowitz fluid flow limit. Historically, the solutions to working within the limit have been go fast and go slow. A major innovation in the Hyperloop proposal provides a novel third approach to remain below the Kantrowitz limit while still moving at high-subsonic velocities: adding a front-end inlet compressor to actively transfer high-pressure air from the front to the rear of the high-speed transport capsule, and thus bypassing much of the air that would have resulted in the dynamic shock of the choked flow.

The 20th Century’s Tube Train Experiments

Early in the 1900’s, Professor Boris Weinberg, a Russian mechanical engineer, presented a potential travel wonder- an electromagnetic method of transporting you through a vacuum from New York to San Francisco in half a day.
The car of the vacuum electric system
is a three hundred-pound cylinder three feet
in diameter with conical ends hermetically sealed.
You lie prone within it its solitary passenger. There is
no track. The car is really a free body sustained by electromagnets
which are placed thirty feet apart."