The Jet Set Hyperloop
FEB 25, 2016 by Christopher Miles  

Is Musk’s tube train a blast from the past?

Rapid low friction travel has been a dream –no, a mission– since the first efforts in the 19th century to create a working pneumatic  train. Some early designs featured a moving shoe in a pneumatic tube which pulled a train above it. Other, more ambitious designs, would place passengers in the tube. There had been experiments in Britain, efforts in France, and several demonstrations built in the U.S.Indeed, a small pneumatic subway line was opened in 1870 under Broadway in New York!

The general hyperloop concept (as we know it today) has been around for over 100 years. Such speedy travel had seemed possible for most of the 20th century, indeed patents were granted as early as 1912. It was a matter of technology timing, political will, and money. We may have needed a true believer, who’d be able to convince a skeptical public that traveling at high speeds in a windowless tube is a good idea. A person with engineering and business skills to make such a system seem feasible to the general public.
	
The Electrical Experimenter April 1917:“…it really does not seem so impractical to speculate about the possibilities of such a high speed railway… A fortune awaits the man who is big enough for the job. It wants another Tesla or Edison and he is bound to arrive sooner or later.”

A Tesla? How about a Musk?
Elon Musk’s Hyperloop Idea

Back in 2012, Elon Musk announced that he’d soon make public a set of plans for something new he’d been thinking over. He (and every other Californian) knew that a high speed rail line was being planned for travel through the congested areas of Southern California. Certainly some high speed rail is better than what exists now. However, going by the latest estimates, by 2025 only the first 250 miles of bullet train track will exist between San Jose and Bakersfield. 

Musk, never one for thinking conventionally, decided to create a better commute. 
Musk: “It’s a cross between a Concorde, a rail gun, and an air hockey table.”
Good to his word, in August 2013 Musk unveiled his Hyperloop plan. It featured a low pressure tube and an air levitated train traveling high speeds, with low energy consumption. However, the big challenge he faced was one of physics. Given the very high speeds, an air compression barrier would form in front of a hyperloop vehicle traveling in a confined space. Given the tight quarters in the tube he’d planned, pressure buildup in front of the vehicle would definitely have been a problem. Actually, this pressure barrier-known as the Kantrowitz Limit–wasn’t simply a problem,  it was a potential showstopper.

Attempts to pass a high-speed passenger-pod through a very low pressure tube run squarely into the Kantrowitz fluid flow limit. Historically, the solutions to working within the limit have been “go fast” and “go slow”. A major innovation in the Hyperloop proposal provides a novel third approach to remain below the Kantrowitz limit while still moving at high-subsonic velocities: adding a front-end inlet compressor to actively transfer high-pressure air from the front to the rear of the high-speed transport capsule, and thus bypassing much of the air that would have resulted in the dynamic shock of the choked flow.

The 20th Century’s Tube Train Experiments

Early in the 1900’s, Professor Boris Weinberg, a Russian mechanical engineer, presented a potential travel wonder- an electromagnetic method of transporting you through a vacuum “from New York to San Francisco in half a day”.
"The car of the vacuum electric system is a three hundred-pound cylinder three feet in diameter with conical ends hermetically sealed. You lie prone within it — its solitary passenger. There is no track. The car is really a free body sustained by electromagnets which are placed thirty feet apart."


Climate, on the other hand, refers to the long-term (usually at least 30 years)
regional or even global average of temperature, humidity, and rainfall patterns
over seasons, years, or decades

Place is one of the most complex and important terms in geography.
In human geography, place is the synthesis of the coordinates on the Earth's surface,
the activity and use that occurs, has occurred, and will occur at the coordinates, and 
the meaning ascribed to the space by human individuals and groups. This
can be extraordinarily complex, as different spaces may have different uses at
different times and mean different things to different people. In physical geography
a place includes all of the physical phenomena that occur in space
including the lithosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere
Places do not exist in a vacuum and instead have complex spatial relationships
with each other, and place is concerned how a location is situated in relation to all
other locations. As a discipline then, the term place in geography includes all spatial
phenomena occurring at a location, the diverse uses and meanings humans ascribe to that
location, and how that location impacts and is impacted by all other locations on Earth.
In one of Yi-Fu Tuan's papers, he explains that in his view, geography is the study of Earth
as a home for humanity, and thus place and the complex meaning behind the term is central to
the discipline of geography.
Sub-disciplines
Geography is a branch of inquiry that focuses on spatial information on Earth. It is an extremely broad topic and can be broken down multiple ways. There have been several approaches to doing this, including "four traditions of geography" and into distinct branches. The Four traditions of geography are often used to divide the different historical approaches theories geographers have taken to the discipline. In contrast, geography's branches describe contemporary applied geographical approaches.

Four traditions of geography
Main page: Category:Four traditions of geography
Geography is an extremely broad field. Because of this, many view the various definitions of geography proposed over the decades as inadequate. To address this, William D. Pattison proposed the concept of the "Four traditions of Geography" in 1964. These traditions are the Spatial or Locational Tradition, the Man-Land or Human-Environment Interaction Tradition, the Area Studies or Regional Tradition, and the Earth Science Tradition. These concepts are broad sets of geography philosophies bound together within the discipline. They are one of many ways geographers organize the major sets of thoughts and philosophies within the discipline.

Spatial or locational tradition
Main article: Spatial Analysis
The spatial or locational tradition is concerned with employing quantitative methods to describe the spatial characteristics of a location. The spatial tradition seeks to use the spatial characteristics of a location or phenomena to understand and explain it. The contributors to this tradition were historically cartographers, but it now encompasses what we call technical geography and geographic information science.

Area studies or regional tradition
Main articles: Regional geography and Area studies
The area studies or regional tradition is concerned with the description of the unique characteristics of the earth's surface, resulting in each area from the combination of its complete natural or elements, as of physical and human environment. The main aim is to understand, or define the uniqueness, or character of a particular region that consists of natural as well as human elements. Attention is paid also to regionalization, which covers the proper techniques of space delimitation into regions.

Human-Environment interaction tradition
Main article: Integrated geography
The Human Environment Interaction tradition (originally the Man-Land), also known as Integrated geography, is concerned with the description of the spatial interactions between humans and the natural world.[38] It requires an understanding of the traditional aspects of physical and human geography, like how human societies conceptualize the environment. Integrated geography has emerged as a bridge between human and physical geography due to the increasing specialization of the two sub-fields, or branches.[16] Since the changing of the human relationship with the environment as a result of globalization and technological change, a new approach was needed to understand the changing and dynamic relationship. Examples of areas of research in environmental geography include: emergency management, environmental management, sustainability, and political ecology.

Earth science tradition
Main article: Earth science
The Earth science tradition is largely concerned with what is generally referred to as physical geography. The tradition focuses on understanding the spatial characteristics of natural phenomena. Some argue the Earth science tradition is a subset of the spatial tradition, however the two are different enough in their focus and objectives to warrant separation

Branches of geography
Main page: Category:Branches of geography
Within the traditions mentioned above, geography is organized into applied branches. The UNESCO Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems organizes geography into the three categories of human geography, physical geography, and technical geography. Some publications limit the number of branches to physical and human, describing them as the principal branches. Geographers rarely focus on just one of these topics, often using one as their primary focus and then incorporating data and methods from the other branches. Often, geographers are asked to describe what they do by individuals outside the discipline and are likely to identify closely with a specific branch, or sub-branch when describing themselves to lay people. Human geography studies people and their communities, cultures, economies, and environmental interactions by studying their relations with and across space and place. Physical geography is concerned with the study of processes and patterns in the natural environment like the atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and geosphere. Technical geography is interested in studying and applying techniques and methods to store, process, analyze, visualize, and use spatial data. It is the newest of the branches, the most controversial, and often other terms are used in the literature to describe the emerging category. These branches use similar geographic philosophies, concepts, and tools and often overlap significantly.

Physical
Main article: Physical geography
Physical geography (or physiography) focuses on geography as an Earth science. It aims to understand the physical problems and the issues of lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, pedosphere, and global flora and fauna patterns (biosphere). Physical geography is the study of earth's seasons, climate, atmosphere, soil, streams, landforms, and oceans. Physical geographers will often work in identifying and monitoring the use of natural resources.



Wrong: Clima!te, ather system hnad, tha gievn sistem relatoinship